## variables
- In Python, a variable is a named storage location used to store data values. 
- It acts as a symbolic name for a value you want to use in your program. 
- We can think of a variable as a container that holds a value. meaning- Variables are containers for storing data values.
- Variable names are case-sensitive.
- String variables can be declared either by using single or double quotes
- We can get the data type of a variable with the type() function.
- If We want to specify the data type of a variable, this can be done with casting.
---
#### Creating Variables
- A variable is created the moment you first assign a value to it.
- We declare a variable by giving it a name and assigning a value to it using the equal sign (=) and variable name should be an identifers. 
- Python is dynamically typed, meaning you don't need to explicitly specify the data type of a variable. The interpreter determines the type dynamically.
- We can change the value of a variable by assigning a new value to it.
- We can assign values to multiple variables in a single line.

#### 

### Global Variables
> Variables that are created outside of a function (as in all of the examples above) are known as global variables.
> Global variables can be used by everyone, both inside of functions and outside.
> If you create a variable with the same name inside a function, this variable will be local, and can only be used inside the function. 
> The global variable with the same name will remain as it was, global and with the original value.
> To create a global variable inside a function, you can use the global keyword.
> use the global keyword if you want to change a global variable inside a function.

##### Example -
```python
# Global variable
global_variable = 10

def example_function():
    # Accessing the global variable
    #print("Inside the function - Global variable:", global_variable)
    # we can;t acces global_variable without using global keyword
    # Creating a local variable with the same name
    local_variable = 5
    print("Inside the function - Local variable:", local_variable)

    # Modifying the global variable with the 'global' keyword
    global global_variable
    print("Initially Global variable Declared with Value: ", global_variable)
    global_variable = 20
    print("Inside the function - Modified Global variable:", global_variable)

# Calling the function
example_function()

# Accessing the global variable outside the function
print("Outside the function - Global variable:", global_variable)

```
> OUTPUT
Inside the function - Local variable: 5
Initially Global variable Declared with Value:  10
Inside the function - Modified Global variable: 20
Outside the function - Global variable: 20